{"title": "IT youth award 2007", "tags": ["contrib"]}

# Part 2 - Abstract or Summary of IT accomplishment/research/project

As a computer science student, I have always been keenly aware of the
misconceptions the general public has about this field. Computer science is more
than just writing codes on computers; it is about designing solutions to
problems which can be executed efficiently. To quote the words of Professor
Edsger Dijkstra, ``Computer Science is no more about computers than astronomy is
about telescopes.'' . My goal is to interest young people to learn computer
science and discover its elegance and beauty.

Organizing IT competition is certainly one of the most effective ways to
motivate students to learn more about computer science. Competitions provide an
avenue for students to showcase their skills, interact with other students with
similar interests and compare themselves with others. In my opinion,
competitions should also be innovative and inspire students to continue to
improve themselves.

I have contributed to a number of local IT competitions such as Computron and
the National Olympiad in Informatics. I was the chairperson of the scientific
committee in Computron 2004 and as part of my duties I developed the problems
sets used during the programming round. For Computron 2006, I proposed a new
competition format to replace the existing programming round. The new format was
successfully implemented by the organizers and feedback from the contestants
indicated that it made the competition more exciting and competitive as now they
had to devise programs to ``battle'' against the other contestants' programs.

Beyond the local competitions, I have also been actively involved in organizing
and coaching the students who take part in international competitions, such as
the International Olympiad in Informatics (IOI) and the Association for
Computing Machinery International Collegiate Programming Contest (ICPC), since
2004. I have had the honor of being part of the Singapore delegation at the IOI
in 2005 and 2006. In order to facilitate the growth and continual success of our
students in Informatics competitions, I have created a website at
\url{http://judge.ip.mysoc.net/wiki/} to maintain and archive the training materials
we have developed over the years. This is integrated with an online automatic
judging system which is based on an open source contest management system,
Mooshak (\url{http://www.ncc.up.pt/mooshak/}).

Besides being involved in Informatics competitions, I am also a beginning
researcher in the field of Computational Biology. I am currently working on
several research projects in the areas of phylogenetics and comparative
genomics. Recently in June/July 2006, I was a member of the organizing committee
for a two month Algorithmic Biology program
(\url{http://www.ims.nus.edu.sg/Programs/algorithmicbiology/index.htm})
jointly organized by the Institute for Mathematical Sciences and the School
of Computing.


# Part 3 - Description of Contribution

> How have you contributed significantly to the above mentioned accomplishment
> and/or the development of new or improved IT-based learning resources, services
> or applications?

The organization of competitions such as Computron and National Olympiad in
Informatics is a group effort which involves an organizing committee, which is
sub divided into a scientific committee and a technical committee.

My primary focus in these competitions is on the scientific aspects, i.e. the
development of interesting problem sets and innovative competition formats which
will be able to engage and interest the students in learning Computer Science. I
have also contributed in the technical side of these competitions by developing
automated judging programs for both of these competitions to grade the
submissions by the students.

At the international level, my contributions are in organizing training sessions
and workshops to develop the talent of our students. Since 2005, I have
organized an ICPC workshop and an IOI workshop during the May -- Aug period to
train our students in problem solving and programming. As a member of the
Singapore delegation at the IOI, I was part of the general assembly of the IOI
and together the general assembly selected the tasks for the competition and
voted on long term changes in the IOI.

> What is the impact of your contribution towards the establishment of new
> industrial technology and/or the innovative use of existing technology to
> develop new or improve IT-based learning resources, services or applications?

I have made use of existing technology such as wikis and an open source contest
management system to facilitate the workshops I have conducted. Our wiki site is
a publicly available archive of training materials and competition tips we have
developed over the years and it also serves as a community site where members
can create their own pages and contribute to our knowledge
base.

> How have your contributions led to further joint ventures/collaboration
> with schools, institutes of higher learning and/or community in Singapore (if
> any)?

The workshop we organized for the IOI training is a collaboration between the
Ministry of Education, which manages the secondary school and junior college
students who takes part in the IOI, and the School of Computing which provides
the manpower and facilities to run the workshop.
