{"title": "LD 111", "tags": []}
Martin - Ashanti Empire in Africa that lasted from the early 1600s - 1900s.
Built on free labour. Rallied around the golden stool to defeat the enemy.
Importance of culture to unify the people. Series of Anglo-Ashanti wars that
were fought on the basis of disagreements between future colonisers on how
Africa should be divided.

Ka Ho - Mathematical biology, using mathematical models in biology & Alan
Turing's contributions (Ref Video: How the zebra really got its stripes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JLkCaBwRrVo )

Paul - MODO BASS - a physically modeled electric bass guitar; delivers the rich
and nuanced sound of a real instrument played by a real musician. Useful when
synth bass or samples aren't good enough and you can't get a talented bass
player to cut a perfect track on short notice.
https://www.ikmultimedia.com/products/modobass/

Melvin - Cuttle, 2 player card game played with a standard deck. Play against
the AI https://gloryofrobots.itch.io/cuttle, play against other people
https://www.cuttle.cards/ Rules:
https://github.com/shmup/card-game-rules/blob/master/cuttle.md

Melia - Collection of parasite plants. Examples are rafflesia and mistletoe. In
Southeast Asia, there are practices of using parasite plants for their
medicinal properties.
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs11418-012-0695-2

Hijie - Searching for the best tool to permanently delete files on your
computer. Bought BitRaser. SG companies fined due to data breaches.

Anna - Reading the book "Beneath the Rug", 30 stories of people in the social
impact space. Understand the struggles and share the stories.
https://www.solvenplus.one/btr

Janice - Springtail Jumps Off Water and in Super Slow Motion!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MXeSnWY6DNc Pictures
https://www.chaosofdelight.org/
