{"title": "LD 109", "tags": []}
[2021-12-10 Fri 19:15:00]

1. Louis: business model canvas https://www.strategyzer.com/canvas. Start-up
that makes anti catheter infection tech, pitch has practical explanation of
evolving business model canvas https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-FGTTFMEDHU

2. Melvin: Luhmann’s great method of making linked notes, to consciously
explain how each note is linked to other notes you have. Obsidian as a possible
software
https://writingcooperative.com/zettelkasten-how-one-german-scholar-was-so-freakishly-productive-997e4e0ca125
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qRSCKSPMuDc

3. Ka Ho: explaining dopamine, a neurotransmitter that plays a role in how we
feel pleasure. Opiods: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V0CdS128-q4
How to dopamine detox: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9QiE-M1LrZk&t=1s&ab_channel=BetterThanYesterday

4. Paul: guitar effects software review. Bespoke as a “operating system”, with
add-ons software e.g. Helix Native, Archetype Cory Wong, Bias FX 2.
https://www.musicianonamission.com/guitar-effects-software/

5. Liwei: VIBRATORS. Vibrations will damage your products, e.g. during
transport on train, lorry, etc. Electrodynamic shakers (basically vibrators)
test the products, help to find the resonance frequency and reduce the risk of
damage https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Y2L6QLOi-c&ab_channel=EEVblog

6. Sharon: deep breathing and its health and mental health benefits like
down-regulating from fight or flight to equilibrium, reduce anxiety. The
theory: https://youtu.be/ldNnKVGxabA. The practical (try it at home!):
https://youtu.be/kgTL5G1ibIo

7. Anna: journey of reading books and enjoying them! “59 Seconds: Think a
Little, Change a Lot”: how motivation can help you achieve goals, e.g. having
sub-goals, achieve by X date, reward for achieving the goal. Other books
bought: “Asking Why: Selected Writings of Ho Kwon Ping”, “They Told Us to
Move”, “Economics in Singapore” A Level textbook, “The Practice of Not
Thinking: A Guide to Mindful Living”, “Thinking Fast and Slow”, “It Didn’t
Start with You: How Inherited Family Trauma Shapes Who We Are and How to End
the Cycle”, “Before the Coffee Gets Cold”, “The Art of Advocacy”

