{"title": "personal statement for PhD programme application", "tags": ["contrib"]}

My first contact with computing was during my secondary school days when I
learnt GWBASIC as a member of the Computing Club. It sparked my passions to
learn more about computing and drove me to enroll in the Computer Science
program at the School of Computing, NUS. The four years I spent at the school
was both enriching and eye opening. For my honors year project, I took up a
Bioinformatics research project supervised by A/P Leong Hon Wai (School of
Computing) and Dr Guillaume Bourque (Genome Institute of Singapore). Informal
conversation with my supervisors and my own background readings for my project
show a vibrant and exciting field of research in the area of Bioinformatics,
with interesting theoretical and practical results which influence the way we
understand and interpret the large amounts of data generated by biologists. A
somewhat counterintuitive observation I made when studying is that the more you
learn about a subject, the less you know about it as you discover new areas of
research. Graduating this semester with a Bachelor in Computing, the logical
step for me to learn more about this field and to make my own research
contributions is to enroll in a graduate program in the School of Computing.
Unlike the traditional field of theoretical Computer Science that are still many
undiscovered problems in Bioinformatics. No one put this more succinctly than
Don Knuth when he said, "Biology easily has 500 years of exciting problems to
work on, it's at that level."

Besides fulfilling the coursework requirements during my undergraduate study, I
was involved in extra curricular activities in the School of Computing. In my
second year, I was invited to join a special training program for the ACM
International Collegiate Programming Contest (ICPC). I was selected to take part
in several regional contests. The team of 3 students including myself obtained
the first place in the Kanpur Regionals in 2004 and represented NUS in the world
finals in Shanghai in 2005. After the world finals in 2005, I left the
competition to focus on my honors year project but I remained in the ICPC group
as a mentor to guide and train the newer batches of students and as the system
administrator for our own automatic contest server. Besides the ICPC, I also
helped out in the training program organized by the school for students selected
to represent Singapore in the International Olympiad in Informatics (IOI). In
recognition of my contributions, I was invited to accompany the Singapore Team
to the 17th IOI held in Poland as an adjunct to the team. My experiences in both
the ICPC and IOI have given me a strong foundation in problem solving and the
systematic analysis of algorithmic problems and their solutions.

The School of Computing is in a unique position for research in Bioinformatics
due to its proximity with other research institutes in Singapore in this field
such as the Bioinformatics Institute, Genome Institute of Singapore and the
Institute for Infocomm Research. The school also has a number of faculty members
who have contacts with well known research groups in Bioinformatics such as Dr
Pavel Pevzner's group in the University of California, San Diego. Besides
working on my research I hope to continue to contribute to growth of the ICPC
and IOI community in NUS and to share my experiences and passion in computing
with the student community. I hope that I will have the privilege of continuing
my education in the School of Computing.

